March 1, 2018
Honorable Mayor, Mayor Pro Tem and Councilmembers, and Citizens of Austin
City of Austin, Texas
We are pleased to submit to you the Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (CAFR) of the City of Austin, Texas
for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2017. The CAFR is provided to give detailed information about the financial
position and activities of the City to citizens, City Council, City staff, and other readers.
City management is responsible for both the accuracy of the presented data and the completeness and fairness of
the presentations, including all disclosures. We believe the data, as presented, is accurate in all material respects
and is presented in a manner which fairly sets forth the financial position and results of operations of the City. These
financial statements have been prepared by the Controller's Office in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles (GAAP) for local governments.
The basic financial statements and related notes have been audited by the independent firm of Certified Public
Accountants, Deloitte & Touche LLP. This audit satisfies Article VII, Section 16 of the City Charter, which requires
an annual audit of all accounts of the City by an independent Certified Public Accountant. Grant awards are being
audited under the provisions of the Single Audit Act of 1996, as amended, and the State of Texas Uniform Grants
Management Standards. The Single Audit reports will be issued separately.
Management’s discussion and analysis (MD&A) immediately follows the independent auditors’ report. It provides
a narrative introduction, overview, and analysis to accompany the basic financial statements. This letter of
transmittal is intended to complement the MD&A and should be read in conjunction with it.
AUSTIN’S GOVERNMENT AND THE REPORTING ENTITY
General Information
The City of Austin, chartered in 1839, has a Council-Manager form of government with a Mayor who is elected at
large and ten Councilmembers who are elected by geographic district. The elected officials serve four-year
staggered terms subject to a maximum of two consecutive terms. The City Manager, appointed by the City Council,
is responsible to the Council for the management of all City employees, except Council appointees, and for the
administration of all City affairs.

Austin, the capital of Texas, is the fourth largest city in
the state (behind Houston, San Antonio, and Dallas)
and the eleventh largest in the nation with a September
2017 population of 946,080 according to the City’s
estimates. Over the past ten years, Austin’s population
increased by approximately 26.8% or 199,975
residents. The City’s demographer predicts that Austin
will surpass the 1 million mark by 2020. With a
population of over two million people, the Austin metro
is the fastest growing metro of its size in the U.S.
Geographically, Austin consists of approximately 325
square miles. The current estimated median
household income for Austin residents is $56,849
according to Nielsen Site Reports. Austin’s per capita
income is estimated to be $53,908.
