PROFILE
AGUA Special Utility District (the District) is located in the City of Palmview, Texas and provides potable
drinking water and sewer collection services to its customers in Hidalgo and Starr County, Texas and was
created in 2005 by the enactment of the Texas Special District Local Laws Code Title 6, Subtitle C, Chapter
7201, Acts 2005, 79th Leg. Ch. 1057 Section 2.01 effective September 1, 2005. Acts 2007 further amended
chapter 7201 of the Local Laws Code, 80th Leg. R.S. Ch. 1430 effective June 6, 2007 to provide for the
transfer of assets, related liabilities, contractual rights and obligations as well as all legal claims against its
predecessor entity, the La Joya Water Supply Corporation.
The District is governed by 7 directors who have governance over all activities related to a Texas Water
Utility District. They consist of three at large for unincorporated areas, one for the City of Mission, one for
the City of Palmview, one for the City of Penitas and one for Sullivan City. Directors are elected to
staggered 4 year terms and may not serve more than two consecutive terms.
The District is legally separate and is fiscally independent of other state and local governments, it is a
primary government and not included in any other governmental reporting entity. The District has no
component units.
The District adopts an annual operating budget that differs from generally accepted accounting principles
in that it includes provision for the purchase of capital assets, payment of principal on debt and transfers to
various reserve accounts required by debt covenants. The adopted budget is not a spending limitation under
law but rather an operating plan. The District adopts its budget no later than December 31st
.

LOCAL ECONOMY
The District provides water and sewer services not only to the unincorporated areas of Hidalgo and Starr
Counties but also to the surrounding cities of Palmview, Peñitas, La Joya, Mission and Sullivan City. The
District continues to expand as the surrounding areas are developing and expanding both in residential and
commercial development.
The population in the surrounding areas continues to increase as new residential subdivision are developed.
According to the US Census of 2010, the District served a population of 65,000. As infrastructure is put in
place, the served population is expected to grow, especially in the residential area.
The District has received $42.2 million in loans and grants from the Texas Water Development Board
(TWDB) for the construction of a sewer system in the City of Palmview. Currently the City of Palmview
does not benefit from a sanitary sewer collection system. The project will provide sewer collection services
within the City of Palmview to approximately 1,600 new connections. The infrastructure will provide for
future development that will benefit both the District and the City of Palmview.
The current unemployment rate, according to Sperlings Best Places, is 8.20% for the surrounding areas.
The largest employer is the La Joya Independent School District with approximately 4,368 employees.
